# Stock Beasts
This project starts off as what I called Stock Beasts, where evolution as we know it is not just influenced by natural selection, but by the fragility of the stock market. Traits of the phenotype (observable behavior and characteristics) would be tied to a stock's value, increasing and decreasing with levels of volatility never before seen in nature... kind of.

This idea was inspired by a single ridiculous connection I made while watching Yale's Evolutionary Biology course (found [here](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLB225304713046D4F)). Professor Stearns discusses a case where the average physical size of fish in a certain population were observed to grow rapidly over the course of a few years, indicating that perhaps evolution did not in fact take millennia, but that real change could be observed in just a few short years. And while true that evolution is ever ongoing, this particular period of growth was not everlasting. If instead you look at the size of these fish over the course of multiple decades, rather than just a couple years, you would see that while the fish did get bigger since the beginning, the slope was not nearly as steep as it was before, and were not all that much larger than their starting point. Evolution is inherently a volatile process, and it is not planned or intentional. So while some of those fish were randomly mutating to grow much larger, in the end natural and reproductive selection proved that such size was maybe not that beneficial, and course-corrected. This example is all to show that evolution, with all of its randomness, sometimes showcases this phenomenon of rapid change in the short term, but slow change in the long term as it settles on what is best for the population. And, in the crude visual example of the plotted sizes of fish by Professor Stearns, what did I immediately see? The stock market. 

I know very little about stocks (basically, that they go up and down). However, I do know that over the years, with all of its spikes and crashes, the stock market slowly trudges upwards. This is the analogy that first came to mind when I watched that lecture, and after letting that thought percolate, I decided it may be fun to have a simulation where "evolution" was dictated by the value of stocks, not genetic mutation. I have no idea how these creatures will fare - but that is the fun of simulation after all, right?